Graduate Assistant and Graduate Lecturer Appreciation Breakfast MONDAY, APRIL 5, 2027, 9:30AM Merten Hall, 1201, James W. Hazel Conference Room, Fairfax Campus Graduate Assistants of all kinds (Graduate Research Assistants, Graduate Teaching Assistants, and Graduate Professional Assistants) and Lecturers are welcomed to join us for a FREE breakfast on the Fairfax campus! Invite only, look for email.

Student & Alumni Networking Mixer THURSDAY, APRIL 15, 2027, 2PM Johnson Center, Georges, Fairfax Campus Calling all Sophomores and Juniors! Join fellow Mason alumni and students for an exciting networking reception on April 15th. This is your chance to: Connect with alumni from a variety of industries and experience levels. Expand your network and make valuable career connections. Learn about career paths and gain insights from seasoned professionals. Light refreshments will be served. Don't miss this opportunity to build your future at GMU! Space is limited! **Event co-hosted with the GMU Alumni Association.

2026 Part Time Job Fair TUESDAY, AUGUST 25, 2026, 11AM Johnson Center, Cinema, Fairfax Campus, Johnson Center, Dewberry Hall Lobby, Fairfax Campus, Johnson Center, Dewberry Hall, Fairfax Campus, Johnson Center, Dewberry Hall Pre-Function Hall, Fairfax Campus, Johnson Center, G29, Dewberry Hall Lobby… During Welcome2Mason, local companies with part-time jobs will be seeking students to fill jobs with immediate availability in the local area.

NO NEED TO REGISTER, CHECK-IN STARTS AT 10AM

Clearance Ready: Introduction to Security Clearances WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2026, 5PM Merten Hall, 1204, Meeting Room, Fairfax Campus Interested in working for organizations like the FBI, ManTech, the State Department, NIH, NASA, Deloitte, Booz Allen, EPA or Northrup Grumman? A security clearance is required for all jobs with U.S. federal government agencies and most partner companies. To maximize your career options in the DC metro area, join us to learn about what a security clearance is, why it is important, and what is included in the background check to attain one. Interact with employers requiring a security clearance and learn about the dos and don'ts of the process. This event is part of the University Career Services Clearance Ready Program.

Clearance Ready Networking Event WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 2026, 6PM Merten Hall, 1201, James W. Hazel Conference Room, Fairfax Campus about the value of a security clearance for NOVA workforce opportunities. CEC Industry Partners will meet with students seeking to learn about career pathways that involve access to national intelligence information.

Fall Career Fair 2026 TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2026, 11AM Johnson Center, 325, Meeting Room A, Fairfax Campus, Johnson Center, 326, Meeting Room B, Fairfax Campus, Johnson Center, 327, Meeting Room C, Fairfax Campus, Johnson Center, 333, Meeting Room D, Fairfax Campus, Johnson Center, 334, Meeting Room E,… Hi Patriots! The Fall Career Fair is your chance to connect with representatives from over 200 companies and organizations hiring George Mason students and alumni. Explore internships, part-time jobs, and full-time positions. You won’t want to miss this opportunity to show off your business attire, resume, and networking skills!

This event is open to all students and alumni. No registration is required.

Fall Career Fair 2026 WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2026, 11AM Johnson Center, Cinema, Fairfax Campus, Johnson Center, 325, Meeting Room A, Fairfax Campus, Johnson Center, 326, Meeting Room B, Fairfax Campus, Johnson Center, 327, Meeting Room C, Fairfax Campus, Johnson Center, 333, Meeting Room D, Fairfax Campus,… Hi Patriots! The Fall Career Fair is your chance to connect with representatives from over 200 companies and organizations hiring George Mason students and alumni. Explore internships, part-time jobs, and full-time positions. You won’t want to miss this opportunity to show off your business attire, resume, and networking skills!

This event is open to all students and alumni. No registration is required.

Introduction to Security Clearances WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2026, 5:30PM Virtual Event Zoom Interested in working for organizations like the FBI, ManTech, the State Department, NIH, NASA, Deloitte, Booz Allen, EPA or Northrup Grumman? A security clearance is required for all jobs with U.S. federal government agencies and most partner companies. To maximize your career options in the DC metro area, join us to learn about what a security clearance is, why it is important, and what is included in the background check to attain one. Interact with employers requiring a security clearance and learn about the dos and don'ts of the process. This event is part of the University Career Services Clearance Ready Program.
