Mason Merit Scholarships – Incoming, First-Time Freshman Students

George Mason awards millions of dollars in scholarships to incoming freshmen every year. These awards not only recognize strong academic talent and achievement, but also special talents and other personal characteristics, without regard to an applicant’s financial need. Most George Mason scholarships require full-time enrollment and are not pro-rated based on reduced enrollment loads.

All freshman applicants who apply by November 1 (the Early Action application deadline) will automatically be considered for merit-based scholarships through the Office of Admissions and the Scholarship Committee. Students who apply Early

Action are notified of their admissions decisions by mid-December, and the Scholarship Committee notifies students if they were awarded a scholarship no later than February.

Mason Foundation Scholarships – Continuing Students

Mason Foundation Scholarships are provided through the generous donations of George Mason alumni, friends, faculty, staff and students. Private philanthropy enables the University to recognize students showing academic achievement, financial need and unique interests of those students attending George Mason. If you would like to establish a University scholarship or support an existing fund, please visit Campaign for Mason.

The Academic Department for your major may have information about scholarships related to your field of study. Students should contact the college/school and department in which they plan to major for scholarship opportunities.

Questions about athletic scholarships should be directed to the appropriate Intercollegiate Athletic Coaches.

George Mason University Alumni Association (GMUAA) awards five scholarships to undergraduate/graduate students each academic school year. Important Dates and Other Information

Funding Study Abroad there are a number of resources at your disposal. It is important to research carefully and EARLY to secure appropriate funding.

Graduate Fellowships Graduate fellowships are awards that provide support to master's and doctoral students for research, writing, fieldwork, language study, professional development, or independent projects undertaken in conjunction witha degree program.

Renewal of Mason Scholarships

Recipients of most George Mason Scholarships are required to have a cumulative grade point average of at least a 2.75 on a 4.00 grading scale to have the scholarship renewed for the next year. (Please refer to your scholarship letter forspecific requirements of your scholarship.) Information about George Mason’s Merit Scholarship Policy. If you have lost your scholarship due to failure to meet GPA standards, you can appeal for reinstatement. Please review the appeal process in the on-line Financial Aid Handbook.

Outside (External) Scholarships - All Students

Outside scholarships are offered through private agencies and organizations such as high schools, community organizations, scholarship foundations, employers, and government agencies. Students are encouraged to apply for as many externalscholarships as possible: Outside Scholarship List.

Reporting Outside Scholarships

Information for Recipients You may report your outside scholarship by submitting a copy of the official award notification from the donor by email to the Mason Student Services Center, fax to 703-993-2350, or in person to the Mason Student Services Center.

Student’s full name Student ID (G#) Amount of the scholarship Organization information How the scholarship will be disbursed - by paper check or electronic transmission of funds (EFT), and term or year to be applied Important Steps if Your Organization Requires Documentation Some scholarships may require the university to complete certain forms before awards are made or before payment is made to the school. Below are some commonly requested documents.

Bill or unofficial transcript: The financial aid office cannot issue official transcripts or enrollment certifications. The information you require may be accessible via our student portal Patriot Web (e.g., financial aid award, tuition bill, unofficial transcript, & class schedule). Student Accounts will provide all semester bills electronically. An official invoice: Public/private sector, military agencies, educational institutions, and international embassies requiringan official invoice must go through the Student Accounts Third Party Billing. Transcripts or certification of enrollment: The Office of the University Registrar provides official verification of enrollment through Patriot Web at no cost by the National Student Clearinghouse. After logging on to Patriot Web, select Student Records and then Order Enrollment Verification. Verification forms: You may submit your documents/forms via mail, fax, or remotely through the Mason Student Service Center’s secure document submission process. Submitting a Payment to George Mason University The Cashier’s Office has relocated to the Student Accounts Office suite in SUB 1, #1600. #1600 is located across from the Mason Student Services Center. The Cashier’s Office drop box is located in the niche near the entry/exit doors of the building. Campus maps and signage will be updated through the appropriate channels.

GEORGE MASON UNIVERSITY PO BOX # 716475 PHILADELPHIA, PA 19171-6475

Provide the sufficient documentation with the payment or student’s full name and ID (G#) and term/year on the face or stub of the check. Unless the donor has specified, scholarships of $1,000 or more will be split between the fall and spring semesters. Scholarships under $1,000 are credited to the tuition bill during the semester the check is received.

How the Process Works

Payment of Outside Scholarships The official award letter allows the Office of Student Financial Aid (OSFA) to post a pending credit (or memo) on the student’s financial aid award. If the donor does not specify which semester the scholarship to be applied, the student may request the scholarship be paid out in its entirety for one semester.* Adjustments may be made to the student’s financial aid package to ensure compliance with federal and state regulations. Outside scholarships are processed in the order in which they are received and follow a numerical sequence (ex. OSCH1, OSCH2, OSCH3…etc.). Students are encouraged to track their scholarship notifications/awards via the student portal Patriot Web under the Financial Aid tab. The OSFA reserves the right to adjust or cancel financial aid awards based on changes in eligibility, funding, enrollment, receipt or non-receipt of outside scholarships. A revised award notice sent to the Mason email. Outside scholarship payments must be received in the Cashier’s Office by the end of October for the fall semester and March for the spring semester or the credit removed from your account. Outside scholarship payments received in the Cashier’s Office are applied within 24-48 hours of receipt. The OSFA will change the scholarship status from “AUTH”, to “PAID” on the student’s financial aid award. During peak times, allow for additional processing time. Scholarship payments can only be applied to educational expenses on your tuition bill. A credit balance from financial aid awards (e.g., grants, loans, scholarships, etc.) paid on the account will automatically generate a refund check. Refunds from credit balances can be used for books and other educational expense. Please be advised that no refunds will be issued on pending financial aid. For more information, please refer to the Office of Student Account's Refund Procedure. If you are no longer receiving an outside scholarship you reported to the OSFA, please notify gmusch@gmu.edu. *Outside scholarship, awards are considered resources for students receiving federal and state financial aid and may reduce the amount of need-based financial aid awarded to the student. If the outside scholarship exceeds a student’s financial need and/or cost of attendance, adjustments may be made to the student’s financial aid package to ensure compliance with federal and state regulations. The OSFA’s policy is to first reduce student loans or Federal Work-Study funds.

Troubleshooting If your donor has sent your outside scholarship check payment to the Cashier’s Office, please be patient at the beginning of the semester. Allow 14 days for delivery, and confirm receipt by accessing Patriot Web or Bill+Payment. If you do not see your outside scholarship check payment, verify with your donor when (date) and where (address) payment sent, and if the payment cleared the donor’s account. If so, provide a copy of the cleared check to gmusch@gmu

.edu to resolve the issue.

Frequently Asked Questions

Merit Scholarships Q. Do I need to submit a scholarship application for Admissions Merit Scholarships? A. No. All freshman applicants who apply by November 1 (the Early Action application deadline) are automatically considered for merit-based scholarships through the Office of Admissions.

Q. How do I apply for a full-tuition scholarship? A. The University Scholars Award is the highest academic distinction that George Mason offers to undergraduate students. The University Scholar Award covers the full cost of tuition over four years. Recipients are selected from the Honors College applicants who apply by the priority deadline, November 1; no other application is necessary.

Q. How will know I received a merit scholarship? A. For students offered a merit award, notification is included in their Admission Office acceptance letter or a separate letter after admittance to the University. Recipients are also ableto view their merit offer on their Patriot Pass Portal or in their Financial Aid package.

Q. I believe I meet the requirements for a merit scholarship but was not awarded one whom should I contact? A. If you have questions about scholarship eligibility, contact your admissions advisor or admissions@gmu.edu.

Q. Can I receive multiple merit scholarships? A. Most awards can combine with other scholarships and financial aid. However, merit awards may cancel or adjust if an additional aid, scholarship, benefit or resource pay partial or full tuition.

Scholarships and Residency Classification Q. How is domicile determined? A. The Office of Admissions initially determines domicile. If a student fails to submit an Application for In-State rates at the time they apply to George Mason, they will automatically be classified as out-of-state.

Q. How does residency affect my scholarship eligibility? A. Certain scholarship awards are based on residency. Merit awards may be reduced or cancelled if a student’s residency status changes at any point in their academic career.

Q. How do I prove Virginia residency? A. To be considered for in-state tuition, students must meet the residency requirements set forth by the Code of Virginia. For information on how domicile is determined for Virginia residences, pleasevisit the Office of the University Registrar Domicile Eligibility for In-state Tuition page

Maintaining and Receiving Your Merit Scholarship Q. What do I have to do to continue to receive my merit scholarship? A. To remain eligible for your scholarship, you must meet the terms and conditions of George Mason’s Merit Scholarship P

olicy.

Q. If I do not meet the renewal requirements for my merit award, how will I be notified? A. A student will receive a loss of scholarship notification from the Scholarship Manager. Please review the Financial Aid Handbook on how to petition for reinstatement.

Q. How is my merit scholarship applied to my student account each semester? A. Admission Merit scholarships applied directly to tuition & mandatory charges only. Awards not applied to other educational costs.

Q. If I graduate early or do not use all eight semesters of my merit scholarship can I still receive that money? A. Students who complete their undergraduate program in fewer than eight semesters forfeit the remainder of their scholarship.

Q. Can my merit scholarship be use to cover study abroad courses? A. Some merit scholarships can be used to study abroad. To determine, please follow the Center for Global Education guidelines and meet with a Financial Aid Counselor. Students must have a cost breakdown or budget sheet for their study abroad program.

Internal Foundation Scholarships Q. Does the university offer any other scholarships for new or incoming students? A. Yes. Some departments award scholarships to incoming students. We encourage students to contact their college or programs directly to learn about program-specific or talent-based scholarships.

Q. What is the Mason Scholarship Application? A. It is an online scholarship application for Mason foundation scholarships advertised on the Office of Student Financial Aid scholarship portal. Applicants must be current George Mason students.

Q. Can I apply for Mason Scholarships through the General Application scholarship portal as an incoming freshman? A. Incoming freshmen require no application. Awards are open to admitted students who have confirmed their acceptance through a tuition deposit. Students must demonstrate merit and financial need. Financial need scholarships require the student to complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) each year.

Q. If I am not an admitted student can I apply for Mason Scholarships? A. To apply the applicant must be a continuing undergraduate, admitted transfer or graduate student with a George Mason student record.

Q. Who can apply for Mason Scholarship Application? A. The online Mason Scholarship Application is open to all continuing undergraduates, admitted transfers, and graduate students, to review and apply for scholarship opportunities offered through the Office of Student Financial Aid and various departments. Awards are based on your academic record as well as your answers to the questions on the application.

Q. When is the Mason Scholarship Application open for continuing students to apply? A. The scholarship portal emails applicants with a current drafted or submitted General Application on file when opportunities become available. Visit Mason Scholarship Application for updates!

Q. Are international students eligible to complete the scholarship application? A. Yes. International students are eligible to apply for scholarships that do not require U.S. citizenship or financial need.

Q. Should I complete the application each year? Yes, students must submit the Mason Scholarship Application each year for scholarship consideration.

Q. How will I know if I have received an award? A. Notification of George Mason internal scholarships begins mid-June and continues through August. Students selected for the award will receive an official letter via email or mail from thedepartment or award committee. Recipients may view their awards on Patriot Web in the Financial Aid Awards section.

Q. I am having problems signing in to the Mason Scholarship Application. A. If you are having issues logging in with your Mason Net ID (username and password) please visit the Password Management website.

Financial Aid and Scholarship Payments Q. How will my internal scholarship pay? A. Unless stated by the department, most scholarship awards are applied towards educational expenses on your student accounts bill.

Q. Whom do I contact if I do not see my outside scholarship payment on my account? A. Verify with your donor when (date), where (address), and if the payment cleared their account. If so, provide a copy of the cleared check to gmusch@gmu.edu to resolve the issue.

Q. Where can I see a scholarship award or notification posted on my account? A. Students are encouraged to track their scholarship notifications/awards via the student portal Patriot Web under the Financial Aid tab. George Mason University reserves the right to adjust or cancel financial aid awards based on changes in eligibility, funding, enrollment changes, receipt of outside scholarships, etc. If your award offer changes, you will receive a revised award notice.

Q. How will my outside scholarship show up on my account? A. Scholarships are processed and posted in the order received and follow a numerical sequence (ex. OSCH1, OSCH2, OSCH3…etc.).

Q. If my outside scholarship is awarded for four years; do I have to report it each year? A. Yes. To post as a pending credit on your financial aid award renewable scholarships must be reported each year.

Q. How long will a pending outside scholarship credit stay on my account? A. Outside scholarship pending credits (or memos) are posted once the student provides our office with a copy of the official award letter. If your scholarship check does not arrive to university by the end of October (fall semester) or end of March (spring semester), the pending credits will be removed from your account and you may have a balance due.

Q. My donor paid my outside scholarship to me directly, but I still see a pending credit on my student account. What should I do? A. Please notify our office immediately so we can cancel the duplicate credit.

Q. I have a credit balance on my account when should I expect a refund? A. A credit balance from financial aid awards (e.g., grants, loans, scholarships, etc.) paid on the account will automatically generate a refund check. Please be advised that no refunds will be issued on pending financial aid. For more information, please refer to the Office of Student Account's Refund Procedure.

Scholarship Questions and Concerns

Contacts for scholarship questions for prospective or incoming students:

Admission Merit Scholarships - contact the Office of Admissions, admissions@gmu.edu or call 703-993-2000. Talent Merit Scholarships - contact program (College of Visual and Performing Arts, Debate or Forensic) or Academic Department Athletic scholarships - the appropriate Intercollegiate Athletic Coaches. Graduate students may check within their department regarding assistantships, fellowships and scholarships opportunities. The program makes offers. Whom do I contact if

I have questions about my internal scholarship(s) not reported on my financial aid award for the year or term?

Always refer to the award letter and contact the appropriate office or person noted on your letter. Students are encouraged to contact their department directly. The Financial Aid Office can only give information about awards reported toour office by your department.

Current undergraduates with Admission Merit or GMU Foundation scholarships, current graduate students with assistantships or grant tuition waivers, and students with athletic scholarships may contact the Financial Aid Office’s Scholarships Team or call 703-993-2000.
