Top 5 ways Mason graduates got their jobs

Ever wondered how George Mason grads get their jobs? Every year, we conduct the Career Plans Survey for the graduating class, and here's what they told us:

Internships turned into a permanent position Job sites (Handshake, LinkedIn, Indeed, Idealist, etc.) Relationships (friends, family, co-workers, alums, word-of-mouth) Company or organization's website Networking events (career fair, works

Start here Start with Handshake

If you're searching for a job or internship now, we recommend starting with Handshake! Handshake is Mason's job search site, where you can find on-campus, part-time, work-study, internships, and full-time jobs related to your major, interests, and skills. Log in with your Mason credentials and get started by completing your profile.

Note: If you experience issues logging into Handshake, call 703-993-2370 or email us at careers@gmu.edu

Interview on campus Apply for positions with upcoming interviews

Local employers come to George Mason's Fairfax campus to interview students for a range of opportunities, and you can apply for them directly in Handshake. Interview dates are pre-scheduled, and you can sign up immediately, or you'll be notified soon after applying if you're selected. You save time and money by having the interview in a location convenient to you, and employers who interview on campus love hiring Mason students and alums!

How to find On-Campus Interviews in Handshake:

Global job search Global job search

If you're considering working abroad or are an international student, you can get resources and advice on job-searching outside the U.S. from Interstride!

Job search with AI Streamline your job search with AI

Generative AI (GenAI) tools like ChatGPT can streamline your job search if you know how to use them effectively. Here are a few prompts to get you started:

Give advice to a college student seeking their first internship. What are the best job search strategies for a graduate student pivoting their career from a [job X] to [job Y]? Generate a 2,000-character LinkedIn Profile Summary to position me for [job title] given my background [paste resume]. Generate a list of [organization/industry] firms in [location]. Using specific questions and prompts will help you get the most relevant results from GenAI, but it's your responsibility to check for accuracy and personalize GenAI-assisted application materials to truthfully reflect your qualifications and experiences.

Note: Never include personal information such as your name, email/physical address, phone number, or Social Security Number in your questions or prompts.

Use class time to job search Take a Career Prep Course

Earn credits while using your class time to learn how to write and refine your resume, search for opportunities, and have career conversations. In our UNIV Career Prep courses, you'll get in-depth guidance directly from employers and career advisors and dedicated time to work on your career goals.

More advice More ways to find jobs and internships

Finding career opportunities can be intimidating, but your efforts will pay off, especially if you try more than one way to search. Here are some more ideas:

Create your own Career Advisory Board (pdf) Join student organizations related to your career field Talk to your professors about your goals, and ask them about job or internship opportunities Connect with Mason alums who share your caree

Warning Beware of job scams

When you're job searching, you're particularly vulnerable, so it can be easy to miss some of the warning signs of a job scam. We have some resources here to help you recognize and avoid potential threats.

Identifying and Avoiding Fraudulent Jobs / Employers (pdf) Learn about known phishing attempts at Mason
