As the number one public university in Virginia and a top 10 U.S. university for innovation, George Mason is at the forefront of innovation and discovery to meet the toughest challenges and creating opportunities yet to be imagined.

George Mason has increased research expenditures by nearly 30% over the last five years, totaling $282 million in 2024.

Holding an R1 designation from the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education, George Mason’s research goes beyond the desire to know—it expands our understanding, knowledge, shares data and expertise with communities enabling local response, and builds the infrastructure to improve lab-to-market.

According to multiple EduRank rankings, George Mason's research is best in Virginia.

Meet Andre Marshall, Vice President for Research, Innovation, and Economic Impact Latest Research News

Physics major Jessye Gassel presented a video compilation of Kepler's Supernova Remnant (SNR) over the course of 25 years at the 247th American Astronomical Society.

A George Mason researcher will lead a new $1 million NOAA project aimed at improving seasonal weather forecasts, enhancing predictive tools that help communities prepare for climate-related impacts. Learn how this research is strengthening seasonal forecasting.

Brainpower inspires energy-efficient AI Brainpower inspires energy-efficient AI

George Mason researchers are advancing energy-efficient AI, drawing inspiration from the human brain to design smarter computing systems that use less power while accelerating discovery and innovation. Explore how George Mason is shapingthe future of energy-efficient AI.

Fuse at Mason Square powers research and innovation through collaboration

George Mason University celebrated Fuse at Mason Square with the same collaborative spirit that will fuel decades of innovation at the state-of-the-art facility in Arlington, Virginia. Hundreds of representatives from industry, academia,

government, and the community came together for the grand celebration at Fuse, which included a ribbon-cutting for the Energy Exploration (E2) Center.

and watch video highlights

George Mason University professor probes ‘Labubu economics’ June 3, 2026 George Mason PhD student recognized for blockchain privacy research June 2, 2026 Tip Sheet: How concerned should Americans be about Ebola? June 1, 2026 George Mason

Eight George Mason Inventions You Need to Know About

From wearable tech to flood protection, George Mason University is turning bold ideas into real-world solutions.

Explore George Mason’s Grand Challenge Initiative

Explore George Mason’s Grand Challenge Initiative addressing the greatest threats to humanity’s ability to live a peaceful, healthy, prosperous, and just existence.

Partnering for Impact

Mysteries of the Brain

George Mason neuroscientist Giorgio Ascoli created an open-access database of 3D neural reconstructions with contributions from more than 1,000 labs worldwide.

"Hyperlocal"

Jim Kinter, director of George Mason’s Virginia Climate Center, is identifying Virginia’s vulnerabilities and working with community leaders and local citizens to build data-driven solutions.

Building the Infrastructure to Advance Vital Research

George Mason established three institutes to develop operational efficiencies and cross-discipline collaborations around funding, proposal design, and partnerships to advance nascent innovations and develop new ideas from experiment to enterprise, faster.

Top Story: A watershed year for George Mason University sustainability data Naomi Alemayehu, Biology major The Institute for Biohealth Innovation (IBI) pioneers advancements in health care, pushing the boundaries of medical research to enhance human well-being.

re of digital landscapes.

Top Story: George Mason launches Virginia’s first robotics PhD Expanding Portfolios in Critical Research

Artificial Intelligence

George Mason University’s Vice President and inaugural Chief AI Officer Amarda Shehu and the university AI Task Force have set a plan in motion for a responsible approachto harnessing artificial intelligence across operations, academics and training, and research. As a model for other universities, George Mason is building a nexus of collaboration and resources on campus, throughout the region with our vast partnerships, and across the state, called AI2Nexus, preparing the future workforce and accelerating innovation.

George Mason was also the first to offer a School of Computing and a degree in cyber security engineering. LAST Fall 2024, George Mason created a new Responsible Artificial Intelligence Graduate Certificate program.

New guidelines on the use of AI at George Mason are designed to encourage the creative and innovative exploration and use of AI tools while maintaining the university’s commitment to safety, security, academic integrity, and ethical conduct.

George Mason researchers lead statewide study on ethical use of AI in higher education George Mason launches Virginia’s first public master’s degree in AI Explore AI at George Mason National Security and Defense

Growing threats from sophisticated cyberattacks, complex disinformation operations, and efforts to damage the economy—law and policy experts, researchers and scientists at George Mason University are regularly engaged with U.S. governmentagencies, business and think tanks to advance next-generation capabilities and readiness to ensure the country’s safety.

George Mason is a key partner in the Commonwealth Cyber Initiative (CCI), Virginia’s engine for collaborative research, workforce development, and innovation at the intersection between cybersecurity, autonomous systems, and intelligence.

Liza Durant, George Mason’s associate provost for strategic initiatives and associate dean at the College of Engineering and Computing, is the director of the CCI’s Northern Virginia Node.

According to the World Economic Forum, cyber insecurity remains one of the top 10 global risks over the next 10 years. Led by Founder and Executive Director Jamille Jaffer, the National Security Institute at Antonin Scalia Law School is the premier hub of national security thought leadership and policy solutions in the nation’s capital, educating future leaders, informing policy and dialogue, providing practical solutions, and free security support to under-resourced organizations. Jaffer shared his view on current and future global threats on President Washington’s Access to Excellence podcast: Cybersecurity and the global threats of tomorrow.

The university is committed to growing a strong, diverse cybersecurity workforce—from critical infrastructure to small businesses and schools. Sarah Campbell, George Mason’s new associate vice president of research for defense and security initiatives, will collaborate across the university to expand applied research and funding sources to support defense and security programs.

George Mason faculty drive national momentum in defense and security research AI4Defense develops DoD-driven smart solutions More Defense and Security Stories Making Discovery Inclusive and Possible Everywhere

Students, faculty, and partners are learning and discovering in colleges, in cutting-edge labs, and in facilities across the region.

ty, students and staff in identifying and seeking funding to increase Mason’s funded research base
