Research Centers George Mason's commitment to research goes beyond the work of individual faculty members. The university and its partners invest in research centers and institutes that excel at focused and multidisciplinary studies, working together to solve global problems. We study, analyze, anddevelop knowledge in a variety of fields, using collaboration and communication to help generate discoveries.

Researchers examine wood turtles Institute for a Sustainable Earth

The ISE conducts integrative research in the natural sciences, social sciences, computational and data sciences, engineering, and humanities while bridging disciplinary gaps to realize innovative advances in an era of rapid global change.

IBI works with collaborators both within the university and externally. Areas of study include cancer, infectious diseases, brain and behavior, injury and performance, policy, economics, reproductive and family health, and cardiovascularand metabolic issues.

At IDIA, entrepreneurs, researchers, technologists, and business leaders will join more than 300 George Mason faculty and their research staff and students in driving innovation in the digital economy and collaborating on business opportunities.

CHR fosters innovative, consequential research in the humanities and humanities-related disciplines, promotes the humanities' value as a public good, and enhances the work's visibility and impact. CHR will also be a research incubator, providing scholarly support and funding.

The Criminal Investigations and Network Analysis Center (CINA) was a George Mason–led DHS Center of Excellence that advanced tools, technologies, and training to counter transnational criminal activity. After eight years of impact, CINA is now a legacy program under George Mason’s Office of Research, Innovation, and Economic Impact, with its work continuing to inform federal efforts. Information.

Research News

Project PATRIOTS helps fund a pathway to special education teacher licensure for community college transfers February 9, 2026 Special education experts hope to slow teacher turnover with Project TURTLES January 22, 2026 Technical assistance grant supports early childhood teachers throughout Virginia July 30, 2025 George Mason professor teaches Pre-K-12 teachers how to make their lessons more accessible May 29, 2025 Teacher Clothing Closet helps student teaching interns look and feel their best February 10, 2025

College-Affiliated Centers

George Mason's schools and colleges support many centers conducting specialized research.

College of Education and Human Development: Areas of study include education, digital media, sports medicine and management, and improving the lives of those with disabilities.

College of Public Health: Areas of study include health informatics, ethics and policy, and chronic illness.

College of Humanities and Social Sciences: Areas of study include immigration, public policy, climate change, and criminal justice.

College of Science: Areas of study include molecular medicine, geospatial intelligence, biodefense, and the environment.

College of Visual and Performing Arts: The Center for Arts and Wellness makes health education an integral part of students' lives.

Schar School of Policy and Government: Areas of study include intelligence, medical policies, and the economy.

Carter School for Peace and Conflict Resolution: Areas of study include gender issues, peacemaking, and religion.

Donald G. Costello College of Business: Areas of study include government contracting, entrepreneurship, and consumer protection.

Volgenau School of Engineering: Areas of study include transportation, secure information systems, and C4I and cyber.

Antonin Scalia Law School: Areas of study include national security, intellectual property, constitutional freedoms, privacy, and economics.

rge Mason-Affiliated Centers and Institutes

Some external research groups are affiliated with the university, with George Mason faculty working with their teams. They include:

Center for Media and Public Affairs: This nonpartisan research and educational organization conducts scientific studies of the news and entertainment media. Institute for Humane Studies: This organization champions classical liberal ideasand the scholars who advance them. Mercatus Center: This organization provides market-oriented ideas to bridge the gap between academic ideas and real-world problems.
